# getdataproject

# getdataproject  CODEBOOK

Note that the text below is adapted from the codebook for the original source data from which these data were derived.  The link to the codebook for the original source data is: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

BACKGROUND
==================================================================
Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset
Version 1.0
==================================================================
Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto.
Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory
DITEN - Universit? degli Studi di Genova.
Via Opera Pia 11A, I-16145, Genoa, Italy.
activityrecognition@smartlab.ws
www.smartlab.ws
==================================================================

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. See 'features_info.txt' for more details. 


======================================

The source data included the following information:

- Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration.
- Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. 
- A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. 
- Its activity label. 
- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.

This dataset includes the means of each of the time and frequency variables (or "features") for each subject and activity. Features in the source data are normalized and bounded within [-1,1].  For example, one of the features in the source data set is all of the frequency measures for body acceleration along the x axis for a given subject doing a given activity.  This new dataset is generated by calculating the mean of all of these values for a given subject and activity. This results in a final dataset with a mean for each of the features in the source data set for each subject and each activity.  The features which are included in this dataset are those that are means or standard deviations.

=========================================
THis data set includes the following files:

- 'README.txt', which is the codebook

- summary.txt which is the data file, derived from the UCI source data (see link above)

For the summary.txt file:

Each row identifies a subject and the activity performed by the subject for each window sample. Each subject performed 6 activities, so there are 6 rows, per subject.  There were 30 subjects, and their ID numbers ranged from 1 to 30.  Because each subject performed six activities, there are a total of 180 rows.

The subject id is indicated by the "subjectid"" variable and ranges from 1 to 30.
The activity is indicated by the "activity" variable.  There are six activities:
-walking
-walking upstairs
-walking downstairs
-sitting
-standing
-laying

For each of the following features, the mean is indicated for each subject and activity:

"BodyAccelerator_TimeXaxis.mean", 
"BodyAccelerator_TimeYaxis.mean", 
"BodyAccelerator_TimeZaxis.mean", 
"GravityAccelerator_TimeXaxis.mean", 
"GravityAccelerator_TimeYaxis.mean", 
"GravityAccelerator_TimeZaxis.mean", 
"BodyAcceleratorJerk_TimeXaxis.mean", 
"BodyAcceleratorJerk_TimeYaxis.mean", 
"BodyAcceleratorJerk_TimeZaxis.mean", 
"BodyGyroscope_TimeXaxis.mean", 
"BodyGyroscope_TimeYaxis.mean", 
"BodyGyroscope_TimeZaxis.mean", 
"BodyGyroscopeJerk_TimeXaxis.mean", 
"BodyGyroscopeJerk_TimeYaxis.mean", 
"BodyGyroscopeJerk_TimeZaxis.mean", 
"BodyAcceleratorMagnitude_Time.mean", 
"GravityAccMagnitude_Time.mean", 
"BodyAccJerkMagnitude_Time.mean", 
"BodyGyroMagnitude_Time.mean", 
"BodyGyroJerkMagnitude_Time.mean", 
"BodyAccelerator_FrequencyXaxis.mean", 
"BodyAccelerator_FrequencyYaxis.mean", 
"BodyAccelerator_FrequencyZaxis.mean", 
"BodyAccelerator_meanFreqXaxis", 
"BodyAccelerator_meanFreqYaxis", 
"BodyAccelerator_meanFreqZaxis", 
"BodyAccJerk_FrequencyXaxis.mean", 
"BodyAccJerk_FrequencyYaxis.mean", 
"BodyAccJerk_FrequencyZaxis.mean", 
"BodyAccJerk_meanFreqXaxis", 
"BodyAccJerk_meanFreqYaxis", 
"BodyAccJerk_meanFreqZaxis", 
"BodyGyro_FrequencyXaxis.mean", 
"BodyGyro_FrequencyYaxis.mean", 
"BodyGyro_FrequencyZaxis.mean", 
"BodyGyro_meanFreqXaxis", 
"BodyGyro_meanFreqYaxis", 
"BodyGyro_meanFreqZaxis", 
"BodyAccMagnitude_Frequency.mean", 
"BodyAccMagnitude_meanFreq", 
"BodyAccJerkMagnitude.mean", 
"BodyAccJerkMag_meanFreq", 
"BodyGyroMag_Frequency.mean", 
"BodyGyroMag_meanFreq", 
"BodyGyroJerkMag_Frequency.mean", 
"BodyGyroJerkMag_meanFreq", 
"BodyAccMean_Timeangle.gravity", 
"BodyAccJerkMean_Timeangle.gravityMean", 
"BodyGyroMean_Timeangle.gravityMean", 
"BodyGyroJerkMean_Timeangle.gravityMean", 
"angle.Xaxis.gravityMean", 
"angle.Yaxis.gravityMean", 
"angle.Zaxis.gravityMean", 
"BodyAcc_TimeXaxis.stdX", 
"BodyAcc_TimeYaxis.std", 
"BodyAcc_TimeZaxis.std", 
"GravityAcc_TimeXaxis.std", 
"GravityAcc_TimeYaxis.std", 
"GravityAcc_TimeZaxis.std",  
"BodyAccJerk_TimeXaxis.std", 
"BodyAccJerk_TimeYaxis.std", 
"BodyAccJerk_TimeZaxis.std", 
"BodyGyro_TimeXaxis.std", 
"BodyGyro_TimeYaxis.std", 
"BodyGyro_TimeZaxis.std", 
"BodyGyroJerk_TimeXaxis.std", 
"BodyGyroJerk_TimeYaxis.std", 
"BodyGyroJerk_TimeZaxis.std", 
"BodyAccMag_Time.std", 
"GravityAccMag_Time.std", 
"BodyAccJerkMag_Time.std", 
"BodyGyroMag_Time.std", 
"BodyGyroJerkMag_Time.std", 
"BodyAccelerator_FrequencyXaxis.std", 
"BodyAccelerator_FrequencyYaxis.std", 
"BodyAccelerator_FrequencyZaxis.std", 
"BodyAccJerk_FrequencyXaxis.std", 
"BodyAccJerk_FrequencyYaxis.std", 
"BodyAccJerk_FrequencyZaxis.std", 
"BodyGyroscope_FrequencyXaxis.std", 
"BodyGyroscope_FrequencyYaxis.std", 
"BodyGyroscope_FrequencyZaxis.std", 
"BodyAccMagnitude_Frequency.std", 
"BodyAccJerkMag_Frequency.std", 
"BodyGyroMag_Frequency.std", 
"BodyGyroJerkMag_Frequency.std"


Notes: 
======

For more information about the source dataset contact: activityrecognition@smartlab.ws

License:
========
Use of this dataset in publications must be acknowledged by referencing the following publication [1] 

[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.
